# WebDevelopmentLibrary
Web development library (dev_library.php) is an ongoing personal project. It's a library containing simplified web functionalities like video and audio streaming, image resizing, browsing local files and folders on the host machine, and more that can be easily implemented. The end goal is to develop a drag and drop designer tool for web development, kind of similar to dreamweaver except on the web. For now, the library is still in its early stages. It has only been tested to run on WAMP 3.1.0 (Apache 2.4.27, Php 7.1.9, MySQL 5.7.19) so far, and I haven't been able to test it on any web hosting yet. The current focus is on the file browser's UI (windows-like icons and thumbnails, image slideshow, HTML5 video and audio streaming). The current objective for the file browser is to have a sensible windows-like UI for browsing files both in local folders and in the database, display/preview videos (video conversion using FFMPEG will be carried out in the future), music, text files, and other basic features like moving and organizing files via drag and drop. The library is currently capable of browsing the root folders (i.e. C:/), video/audio streaming, browsing files in the database (PDO), image resizing for thumbnails, reading files within zip archives, and some other features that I would elaborate further in the future. Also, the UI is being designed with AJAX in mind. GZip compression and cache controls are already available for faster loading. For now, the file browser is a potential privacy risk so it should be used with caution while the User/Admin management system hasn't been developed yet (this is something that I am still planning for now). The methods for database queries (using PDO and prepared statements) are already available, and the only thing left is to develop the UI for user management and login. I will go indepth about the methods in the library in the future but for now, the basic description for each method is provided in the library's comments.
